docs: service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints (#38997)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/_index.md

The control plane adds this label to an Endpoints object when the owning Service is headless.

### service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints {#servicekubernetesiotopology-aware-hints}

Example: `service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints: "auto"`

Used on: Service

> This annotation is used for enabling [Topology Aware Hints](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-hints/) for a service. This tells the EndpointSlice controller to set topology hints if it is deemed safe.

Reviewer: Is this correct:
```suggestion
This annotation is used for enabling [Topology Aware Hints](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-hints/) for a Service.
If you set the annotation to `"auto"`, that instructs the EndpointSlice controller to set topology hints
(if the control plane considers that appropriate).

There are no other valid values for this annotation. If you don't want topology aware hints
for a Service, don't add this annotation.
```

Author: Thanks for the wording correction!

The control plane adds this label to an Endpoints object when the owning Service is headless.

> ### service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints {#servicekubernetesiotopology-aware-hints}

Reviewer 2: Please use the updated terminology throughout:

1. The annotation should be `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode`
2. The hints annotation is deprecated
3. The value should be "Auto" (note the capitalization)
4. Links should go to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-routing/
5. Domain-prefixed values are supported for custom/implementation-specific values per https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/99190634ab252604a4496882912ac328542d649d/staging/src/k8s.io/api/core/v1/annotation_key_constants.go#L154-L161

Reviewer: In _this_ PR, we're documenting `service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints` @robscott, as a fix for https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/36830.
Please review this as a PR to belatedly register and document **`service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints`**.

PRs to document `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode` are also welcome; I know that this is undocumented as of right now. Anyone is welcome to open a PR that documents the new annotation.

Reviewer 2: `service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints` was replaced by `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode`, any reason we should document the old annotation? For reference, any use of the hints annotation will return a warning pointing to the new annotation: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/99190634ab252604a4496882912ac328542d649d/pkg/api/service/warnings.go#L34

Reviewer: We register (and document) all the annotations that we've ever used in official released code. Even if using them returns a warning, they should still be registered.

Reviewer: (if we don't do that, we won't resolve issue #36830)

> ### service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints {#servicekubernetesiotopology-aware-hints}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints (deprecated) {#servicekubernetesiotopology-aware-hints}
```

> Example: `service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints: "auto"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: `service.kubernetes.io/topology-aware-hints: "Auto"`
```

Used on: Service

> This annotation is used for enabling [Topology Aware Hints](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-hints/) for a Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This annotation was used for enabling _topology aware hints_ on Services. Topology aware
hints have since been renamed: the concept is now called
[topology aware routing](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-routing/).
```

> If you set the annotation to `"auto"`, that instructs the EndpointSlice controller to set topology hints
> (if the control plane considers that appropriate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the annotation to `Auto`, on a Service, configured the Kubernetes control plane to
add topology hints on EndpointSlices associated with that Service. You can also explicitly
set the annotation to `Disabled`.

If you are running a version of Kubernetes older than {{< skew currentVersion >}},
check the documentation for that Kubernetes version to see how topology aware routing
works in that release.
```

Used on: Service

This annotation is used for enabling [Topology Aware Hints](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-hints/) for a Service.
If you set the annotation to `"auto"`, that instructs the EndpointSlice controller to set topology hints
(if the control plane considers that appropriate).

There are no other valid values for this annotation. If you don't want topology aware hints

> for a Service, don't add this annotation.

Reviewer: I recommend tech review on this revised wording - @sergeyshevch if you're confident that this behavior is as written (**_I_** suggested it), then please reply to confirm.

Author: I have no huge confidence about this rewrite. We are in the progress of adopting Topology Aware Hints in our cluster and have not properly tested them.

But your rewrite totally matches with topology-aware hits docs, so it should be fine.

Author: @sftim What do you think here? We may need to request someone's other review.

Reviewer: This is ready for a tech review by SIG Network.
